You decided to join Twitter recently,
put out your first tweet. Mark Andrees
quote tweeted it and said, "This is the
best AI CEO. Nobody knows.
>> Our best work is done alone and
quietly." Every minute you're writing
something for public consumption. You're
not focusing your very limited time that
you have on your customers and your
product.
>> You're building a lot of the future that
we're going to be living in. What does
the next couple years look like?
>> Us solving some of these impossible
problems like cancer are directly going
to be related to this AI boom. net
suffering in humanity overall should go
down significantly.
>> A thread that has emerged on this
podcast is that AI is coming just in
time to save us.
>> The real impact of AI in the next 5 to
10 years really is going to be in
farming, mining, construction, these
industries, they need autonomy and it
couldn't come soon enough. If you look
at farmers, the average age of a farmer
is in their late 50s. What does that
mean in 10 years from now?
>> There's a lot of anxiety about what AI
is going to do to the world. The core
root of fear is misunderstanding. If you
at home are very anxious about AI, the
best thing that you can do is spend time
to understand and you will quickly see
the limitations. Get to know it, then
actively make the technology be used for
good.
Today my guest is Caster Ununice,
co-founder and CEO of Applied Intuition.
You have probably never heard of Caster
or Applied Intuition. This is the most
important under the radar AI company and
CEO that I've ever come across. It's a
$15 billion company that has been
growing quietly over the last decade.
What they do is they add AI to vehicles
like cars, tractors, planes, submarines,
mining rigs, and a lot more. 18 out of
the top 20 automakers are customers, as
well as the biggest global construction,
mining, and trucking companies. Also,
the Department of Defense. They're
basically Whimo or Tesla but without the
hardware. Casser himself was born on a
farm in Pakistan, grew up in Detroit,
started his career as an engineer at GM
and then at Bosch. He then went on to
start a couple companies before starting
Applied Intuition. I love everything
about this episode and I'm so excited to
bring it to you. Don't forget to check
out lennisproduct.com for an incredible
set of deals available exclusively to
Lenny's newsletter subscribers. Let's
get into it after a short word from our
wonderful sponsors.
This episode is brought to you by Omni.
Many product teams today are in the
process of debating how to ship AI
analytics. The hard part is obvious.
Having an LLM guest at SQL in production
is a huge mess and just a bad idea. Omni
takes a different approach. They have a
semantic layer built in so that when you
embed their analytics, the AI actually
knows your business definitions, not
just your raw tables. You can test
queries, validate the reasoning, and
lock down permissions before anything
hits production. If you want AI
analytics in your product without
building the whole stack from scratch,
check out omni.co/lenny
for a free 3-week trial. Companies like
Perplexity, DBT, and Buzzfeed use Omni
to ship analytics their customers can
trust. That's omni.co/lenny.
My podcast guests and I love talking
about craft and taste and agency and
product market fit. You know what we
don't love talking about? Sock 2. That's
where Vanta comes in. Vanta helps
companies of all sizes get compliant
fast and stay that way with
industryleading AI automation and
continuous monitoring. Whether you're a
startup tackling your first SOCK 2 or
ISO 2701 or an enterprise managing
vendor risk, Vanta's trust management
platform makes it quicker, easier, and
more scalable. Vanta also helps you
complete security questionnaires up to
five times faster so that you can win
bigger deals sooner. The result,
according to a recent IDC study, Vanta
customers slashed over $500,000
a year and are three times more
productive. Establishing trust isn't
optional. Vanta makes it automatic. Get
$1,000 off at vanta.com/lenny.
Caster, thank you so much for being
here. Welcome to the podcast.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> You're basically building uh a lot of
the future that we're going to be living
in. And people may not even realize
this. And the kind of there's two sides
to this. On the one side, let me ask you
this question. If things go really well,
what does the next couple years look
like for people with the emergence of AI
with physical AI? What what what's a
vision of the future?
>> Let me take the broader AI point and
then the the the micro the more specific
one on physical AI. macro I I think
about this like the industrial
revolution right so if you're sitting
let's say in the late 1800s
there's a lot of you know we can focus
on a lot of bad things that happened
because the industrial revolution right
you have child labor and you have
monopolies emerging and you have abuse
of you know you wars end up happening uh
but there's also it's an almost almost
unimaginable present without the
values and without the without the kind
of benefits we got out of the industrial
revolution which
broader access to health care like we've
never seen before. Like access to goods,
material goods, things like we take for
granted like heating and cooling your
home. There there's this uh there
there's this great um YouTube kind of
channel that focuses on PW letters from
Germans who are seeing America in the
early 40s and they're writing letters
back to Germany about what they're
seeing as they're basically, you know,
prisoners of war and they're kind of
blown away that the towns that they roll
by in these trains as they're going to
their P camps are all lit up or that
there's cars everywhere. 80% of German
towns in World War II did not have
electricity and that's kind of a
mindbending kind of thing because we
just assume all this stuff all this
technology is you know uh equally
distributed. So the positive version is
these things that we let's say folks who
are wealthy or folks who have access to
technology these things everybody has
access to. the the the fact like simply
having somebody who's a coach to you and
having that coach very specifically to
you, not a generic, you know, chatbt
that's giving fairly generic answers. I
think that's a very powerful thing. I
think us solving some of these
impossible problems like cancer are
directly going to be related to this AI
boom. uh so I think net suffering in
humanity I think just like the
industrial revolution overall should go
down and should go down significantly
and I'm a fundamental optimist in that
view that technology will bring that
that that that that positivity in
physical AI specifically again you know
when you when you have things like your
uh you have your own car and you have
the ability you have your limbs and you
have your your senses and you can drive
you take these kind of things for
granted you jump in your car and you go
to the store uh for somebody who maybe
is disabled or somebody who doesn't have
the money to afford a vehicle, access to
mobility that's nearly free or is free
is a big deal. And that like simple
example of making self-driving cars free
for everybody and how that would change
the planet. You live in Rwanda and you
are two hours from the nearest hospital.
That matters in a very very true way.
And so I think a a lot of let's say the
negativity around AI comes from people
who frankly speaking are living in a
very very good existence. And when you
live on the other edge of society yes
and I'm not like some naive person who
thinks that there's no downsides of
technology. We can discuss that. But I I
I just see there's a a lot more
positive. So when you ask that question
what's the next forget 3 to 5 years
what's the next 20 years? these things
that we take for for granted that are
bad uh suddenly are not there. Uh and I
think I think certain diseases uh
certain in accessibility to basic uh you
know uh services suddenly start going
away. One last example that is you take
just the fact that you can message
people basically for free you know for
people old enough like this is not the
norm. We came from Pakistan. We couldn't
even communicate back to Pakistan
because the long distance, you know, was
so expensive and so it was handwritten
letters. Today, you can basically
contact anybody on the planet basically
for free. There's obvious downsides for
that. But there there's lots of upsides
for that, which is being in touch with
people that you care about and you love
basically for free. And so I think AI
has the ability to bring this abundance
to many many more people um at a near
free uh you know free cost.
>> On the flip side of this as you pointed
out there's a lot of there's a lot of
anxiety about what AI is going to do to
the world and jobs uh robots there like
these videos coming out of China with
these robots with nunchucks uh like the
stock market. I I feel you know what I
feel the nunchuk union is up at arms
with that.
>> How dare they? Yeah. But it's you know
it's scary and the you know the markets
reacting more and more to just like oh
wow these companies are maybe not going
to survive long term. Uh again being at
this the center of this and and building
a lot of this the stuff that'll get us
there. How do you how do you envision
the next couple years playing out? Like
are you optimistic? What keeps you
optimistic? any advice to people that to
help them kind of stay you know calm
through this period?
>> So those are two separate things anxiety
around uh technical shift and then the
public investors reacting to specific
stocks they held. We have to separate
those things. So let's talk about them
separately and the first one you know uh
the the core root of fear is is
misunderstanding. And I think the if you
at home are very anxious about the
impact of AI in some variant on your own
job, the best thing that you can do is
spend time to understand it and you will
quickly see the limitations. There's
some great videos on uh YouTube which
are like you know trying to get Gemini
to understand what a cup is by just
holding it upside down and it like
really and then they do it with you know
chatbt. So it's like if the if the
revolution is coming, you know, the AI
overlords have to first understand like
the top and bottom of a cup. And so you
realize that you can see the video of
nunchuk wielding humanoids which are
pre-programmed and that cost $15 million
to do that video. Um yeah, that that is
true. It's not it's not fake. I'm not
I'm not implying it's fake, but it's
also not what your brain kind of fills
in the gaps. You see nunchuk robots and
you just feel like oh the gap you know
this these are sentient beings that are
at their own valition going rather than
it's a bunch of motors that have been
programmed to do a certain thing. If you
really want to be impressed you go to a
car factory and we've been doing that
for 25 years where you have very very
advanced robots moving extremely fast to
build things. And why are we don't we
have anxiety about the car factory but
we have anxiety about the nunchuk robots
is because the human being doesn't like
that gap we understand the gap of a you
know of a welding robot. You see, oh,
okay, that's a robot. It's been
programmed to make this weld, but we
don't know the techn we as just as an
individual human being living in, you
know, in the world. You don't know how
that robot was made to do that nunchuk
thing. And so, you substitute that with
anxiety and fear. And so, I would really
implore you to, you know, kind of learn
more about the technology and you start
seeing the edges. Now does that take
away from the most fundamental thing
that you're getting at the string that
you're pulling at which is like is
society going to be fundamentally harmed
um and is this you know net net bad for
society I think in any technical shift
the emergence of WhatsApp just as a
example there are people who are damaged
by that literally companies that go away
but also humans who are damaged by the
advent of that technology and so I think
as members of society and as leaders in
society we can we can kind of move that
funnel in whichever way you know
technology for remove the word AI AI is
such a like emotional word because it
it's wrapped in these things you don't
know and so that fear then kind of
deforms so let's just say technology
you know so so so I think it's it's up
to us to recognize this technology can
be used for good and technology can be
used for had and I think that's where
really the the focus is. So get to know
it and then actively make the technology
be used for good uh as a participant
whether you're founder or all the way as
as a as an individual you know employee
citizen of a large company. Then on the
second part of the question about you
know public investors and stuff this is
my I don't have any you know particular
research on this but this is what my
guess is what's actually happened uh
beyond being an engineer which is maybe
my my core identity for the lack of a
better word um I was also I did an MBA
at Harvard and so that was the first
time that this uh let's say did you know
I didn't come from very uh you know uh
very very kind of wealthy upbringings
and this is the first time when I went
to Harvard. I saw like, you know, that
world, that world of people having like
private jets and stuff. It was a really
eye opening experience for me. But the
real world I was exposed to was high
finance and how high finance works. And
you might think as I did from far away
that folks in at hedge funds or at large
you know public equities funds are
extremely nuanced and thoughtful and
they are like you know on whiteboards
with you know uh extremely deep and and
oh maybe even theoretical math to figure
out should they buy or sell you know
Figma and that's not actually how it
works. I mean really what these folks
are is and in this specific case I think
what's happening is they are they buy
and sell stock they are smart people and
they do work hard it's not to take take
that away but they they don't have a
fundamental edge that you would assume
that somebody who sits in you know
skyscraper in New York has and by the
way that's why retail investors have
have have become such a uh active and
and and kind of significant part of the
market so those folks have gone to AI
consultants and have gone to people who
are literally developers uh at these
firms and they'll do something like hey
why don't you build me this app in a
week and then you know this like
consultancy will come back with an app
which kind of looks like maybe a Figma
or another you know some some some web
app and it's that hedge fun manager
they're like well and then you know if
if the company was sitting there they
would say no no this is this just looks
like my app but this is actually not my
app it's not as deep it doesn't have all
these things there's integrations with
all these other other systems but for
the in public investor buy they're like
yeah but it only took like a few weeks
or a month to build this it took you 500
engineers a couple of years
this AI thing could be real and the
things I'm reading on X about like just
vibe coding your way to replace you know
billion-dollar companies that might be
the case and the market immediately
prices in that risk and that's where
that selloff comes from that doesn't
necessarily mean all of those I mean I
just within the last 24 hours I had a uh
I I would I I can't say his name, but
like a very uh let's say calibrated
investor who said this is the time to
buy because these companies are not
actually going away and and and so I
think those are two anxiety within
society and the selloff are two very
different things. They're motivated by
different things. They're part of the
larger AI narrative, but I wouldn't
conflate those two things. It's not that
the hedge fund investor is like, I'm
worried about society, sell service now.
like it's it's there's it's it's
different than that. At least that's my
impression.
>> This is the alpha we've been talking
about. Time to buy. This is not
investment advice.
Well, that's really good advice.
>> I think the real advice is to to fight
fear. And I feel that anxiety,
especially when I go to Michigan and I I
you know, outside of people in the
Silicon Valley bubble, it's like just
just try to learn a little bit uh about
the technology that you're afraid of and
and you'll start seeing some of the the
edges. I love your point about how
self-driving cars are essentially
robots. We don't call them that, but
they're robots. Absolutely. And you see
a nunchuck wielding robot, a
self-driving car doing bad things is
could be very dangerous already. Uh, and
so that's a really good reframe that if
you just think of it, it's just another
robot. And it's been really good for us.
And by the way, the self-driving thing
as an example, you know, whichever way
you slice uh the statistics that are
available from self-driving companies,
they're supremely supremely more safe
than human drivers. And I I do believe
in 20 or 30 years, not that much longer,
we'll look back and we'll kind of be
like, it's kind of like we think about
child labor. You know, in
post-industrial revolution, that was a
normal thing. You would send kids who
were in middle school to go work. It
happens in third world countries today.
It's there isn't a lot of emotion behind
it. It is not considered to be
exploitative because you have no choice.
You know, everyone's just and I think
we'll look back in 25 30 years like
people were just like tired uh under the
influence, you know, after like
extremely stressed going through a
traumatic life, you know, experience and
then they jump in to a car like that.
That that that's it is crazy. And and
just for everyone everyone should really
emotionally think about just in the
United States over 30,000 people will
die in the next year from these
accidents that like the old Stalin line
it's like uh you know a one death is a
tragedy a million is a statistic
>> and we just let the statistic kind of go
over our head like oh it's 30,000 people
but if you ever have talked to a family
of somebody who went through a tragedy
like a car accident it is it's
unbelievable and and and you know you
you suddenly all the fear of AI robots
goes away and you really see that human
impact and you realize like actually us
driving doesn't make sense and it's not
for any other reason then literally
people die.
>> I've become a a huge I have a Tesla and
the self I just use self-driving all the
time now. just like a few months ago, we
got very good. And it's it it used to be
nerve-wracking and now it's like, wow,
this is much better.
>> And and you're doing you're you're not
using you're not doing driving as a job.
Imagine if you're a commercial truck
driver or you work in a mine or you
work, you know, like there a little bit
of intelligence, a helping hand in that
very dangerous task. It's it's it's
incredible. And I think there's
something about the human brain where,
you know, when you when you bring up
that that reality of like self-driving
trucks, the immediately people are like,
well, what about the trucking jobs? Now,
needless to say, we don't have enough
people who want to do that job. So,
leave that fact to the side. I think the
fact that you really focus on is the
fact that people die from trucking
accidents. Like we we like we can't, you
know, throw out the baby with a bath
water. And so I think I implore
everybody, you know, who thinks about AI
broadly and physical AI specifically to
always recognize that your monkey brain
is programmed because of thousands of
years of being in ca, you know, hundreds
of thousands of years of living out in
the wild and being the cave that when
you hear the rustle in the bush that is
you think it's a snake because that's
what our ancestors were programmed. Now,
when something new enters our psyche,
your your your view isn't, well, if if
mining if if mines became autonomous,
well, wouldn't that lose jobs? It's like
those are awful jobs that people die in.
And the best evidence is that people
don't want to work in them. Like, that's
the best evidence. Like, no, nobody's
clamoring to go work in a in a mine in a
remote area. And so intelligence can
help make that, you know, make that
reality much much better.
>> People are seeing AI advance in all
these different ways on the software
side. They see all these models being
released. It's driving 100% of people's
code. Now, what's really cool about you
is you see the hardware side of this.
And I think one of the biggest changes
to our lives will probably be robots
walking around doing things for us. Do
you have a sense of just how close we
are to just robots around us dayto-day?
So I would think about the this uh the
framing here matters again on a
spectrum. So there are robots around us
like uh zumbas you know like the click
clean your carpet where you're sleeping.
Uh there's robots around you when you
make a coffee. There's that's an
automated machine that is taking an
input and doing a bunch of things based
on your you know your what what you
need. So what you're really talking
about is how fast can we go up that
spectrum to where you have a robot that
can take on lots of tasks with little
guidance. And the way that I would think
about this is let's say we're sitting in
this podcast is happening not in 2026
but 2006. And you're asking me the same
question about mobile and you say well
mobile is coming. This is remember pre
iPhone uh which comes out in ' 07.
Everyone has got those flip phones. So
we have some we have mobile. It's not
like a completely, you know, so we have
some robots around us already, but like
it's like, okay, so what when are we
going to and you asked me in 2006, when
are we going to get that Star Trek phone
that can do everything? And I think at
that time, I would say because I don't
even know the iPhone is coming a year
later. I would say, well, Lenny, I don't
I don't know. Maybe it's one to five
years. And if it's not 5 years later
that Uber, WhatsApp, Instagram, Snapchat
are all products and they're being
consumed by many, many, many millions of
people. So what happens when you think
about sitting in 2006 and why can't your
brain figure out that Instagram is
coming? Instagram is very hard to even
conceive without phones that have an app
store, have cameras on both sides are
available, generally available, that
lots of people have it, and the fact
that people are comfortable being on
social networks in 2006 is still an
early thing. This is pre- Twitter and
Facebook is not that big and MySpace is,
but it's not the same type of private
kind of community. And so so the the the
the point I'm making is I think it can
come pretty fast but the way and the
form factor will come is hard to pick
just like it's hard to figure out
Instagram is going to happen because the
the the intelligence in that particular
type of hardware which will be generally
available that's a key word generally
available is really going to impact the
use cases. So I think like the most
obvious use cases that will come early
are going to be use cases where you get
the most amount of bang for buck and the
bang for buck is a car that drives
itself or a mining robot which is a
mining vehicle which is now intelligent
and the reason is all that you know
let's say engineering required to make
this giant you know machine that moves
dirt has already been done it's been
done over the last you know 50 60 years.
So then you're just import putting a
little bit of intelligence into it and
leveraging everything else that that
that the you know companies and and and
and kind of people have developed. So I
think I mean and I'm not just you know
pitching my own book. I mean we're a
physical AI company. I I I continue to
believe that we're I think our brain
emotionally loves the humanoid concept
because we're monkeys and but actually
uh just like more pragmatically it's
actually just putting intelligence into
things that already exist all around us.
And I think and then once that happens
then new applications will emerge which
I think we'll talk about in five to
seven years uh which will be which we'll
start seeing. So let's let's just move
forward five to seven years and let's
see what reality exists and then maybe
we can try to jump into the future from
there. I think generally speaking every
every single car company on the planet
right now is working on a product that's
like a Tesla FSD product. Every single
car company there without exception. uh
many many companies are working in
versions of that that will become fully
autonomous within a cheap sensor suite.
So the the fundamental difference just
to simplify it all the Tesla approach
versus the Whimo approach just to really
keep it simple is the Whimo approach is
lots of sensors and lots of compute and
maps and the Tesla version is very few
sensors no maps or you know no high
fidelity maps I'm just generalizing here
and cheaper compute for the lack of
better word and be the Tesla version of
a product uh this is in the industry is
called an L2++ product is going to be
available everywhere because it's
literally cheaper and it doesn't require
like HD maps. The Whimo product
functions better in a geographically
constrained area. So you fast forward 5
years, both of these types of
technologies will be much more
ubiquitous. L2++ and L4 will be much
more ubiquitous, not only in the Bay
Area or in parts of China, but really
globally. The there are companies
working on this globally. So now, do you
I don't know if you remember, but nav
systems used to be a big deal in cars.
You would pay thousands of dollars and
nav systems are kind of the thing that
everybody wanted. We're at that moment
for L2++ systems where like people are
willing to pay thousands of dollars for
an a semi-automated vehicle. It will not
be a long time. You're already seeing
this happen in China where the downward
pricing pressure for that autonomous
product, for the lack of a better word,
will become close to free. So now you
fast forward 5 to seven years and every
car has some level of autonomy. So now
you have to like mentally live in that
reality that everybody who's buying a
car they just get FSD with it. Now you
start seeing a different world because
now average person isn't wondering is
self-driving in a company. They use it
all the time. They don't wonder are navs
and so what you have in nav systems is a
car play emerges and Android Auto
emerges and it's very natural. people
like, "Oh, I have my phone. I just plug
it in." And it wasn't a big revolution,
but the CarPlane and Android Auto
revolution is actually huge. It brings
free navigation and free applications to
your car and it's fairly ubiquitous. And
so I think the next thing that happens
in five to seven years is then full
autonomy becomes the thing that everyone
expects. And so I think and all of that
and you will see a clear decrease in
injuries and death uh because of that uh
because you have some intelligence
helping you help help you drive out of
this. Now again I'm using the consumer
of vehicle analogies just so people can
understand it but this is the same in
construction it's the same in mining
it's the same in defense it's the it's
in every one of these verticals there's
these big physical machines that humans
are interacting with that teaming up
with that machine is the future the
productivity unlock from just you
looking at a machine not like a sentient
being but but almost like an a physical
agent of something you're trying to
accomplish unlock blocks things that I
think are very hard to think about. So I
I love you know you know things like
molt book and I love o the let's say
openclaw revolution that's happening for
the lack of a better word but I think
the big impact that's still that's still
such a small part of society. My my my
my barometer of impact is like you go to
you know the Detroit airport and you sit
in a gate and you look around and you're
like how many people here are using open
claw and it's like let me like like you
might be the only person who knows what
that is and uh and whereas everybody
they're living their lives they're and
so it's like to them actually the the
impact of AI is going to be in this
physical physical world. I see you also
have a you have Yeah, there you go.
>> Check it out. I'm a convert open.
>> There you go. Perfect. Peter's coming on
the bot soon, so I got some some lobster
claws.
>> Yes. So I think I think the real impact
of AI in the next 5 to 10 years really
is going to be in farming, in mining, in
construction, in self-driving trucks.
That's where you're going to have a real
impact. Though I think I mean I I I love
the stuff that's happening on on these
platforms, but it's still segregated to
like frankly developers and some some a
small very very small part of society. I
wasn't planning to spend so much time
here, but this is extremely interesting
and I think it's important for people to
hear from folks like you about where
things are heading because as I said,
everyone's just like, what is happening?
What is going to be my future? The jobs
piece is really interesting and you have
a thread that has come emerged on this
podcast recently is that like people are
afraid AI will take their jobs but in
reality AI is coming just in time to
save us because uh populations are
declining, people are aging and we need
something to help us there. I know this
is something you like this something
Mark talked about and you're really
close with him. Help help us feel better
about just how AI isn't going to take
our jobs and actually going to save save
us. Yeah, I think I think honestly
speaking these industries like they need
autonomy. I mean and and and and and it
and it couldn't come soon enough. Uh
frankly speaking this is not like people
are not fighting for those trucking
jobs. Uh if you look at farmers average
age of a farmer is in their late 50s 58
or so. What what does that mean in 10
years from now? That means many of those
farmers are going to be retiring if
they're not already retired and 20 years
we have even a bigger a bigger problem
that by the way is every vertical is
like that and I you know my hypothesis
here but on like you know sometimes
people say like you know McDonald's
can't hire or like you know the the mind
local query can't hire and where are all
the people the people are still here I
think they just the tradeoff is just not
worth it anymore in the 1980s and the
1990s doing a long haul trucking job was
what the family has to sacrifice. The
father not being there for for days and
weeks on end. And today that same
workingclass family has can make that
decision and say, you know what, I will
drive for Uber or Door Dash and I'm
willing to do that because I can turn
that app off and pick up my kid and I
prioritize that.
the that is where I think this you know
this uh this kind of intelligence kind
of revolution in the real world is
really I think is going to fill those
gaps in um rather than like an entire
industry suddenly gone and it's just
automated. This is this is this is this
is I I don't believe that future mainly
because the realities of actually you
know replacing an entire industry with
robots is is is still that's too
complex. one day it will happen but it's
not happening anytime soon but the
entire society will be different by that
point and I think again use the
industrial revolution as as a good
version of that I the you know the the
earlier question if I'm somebody who is
not in the AI ecosystem and I have this
anxiety and uh how would I deal with
reading history books is a great way to
really understand how society deals with
this and there there's a lot of
literature because industrial revolution
doesn't happen like you
in the dawn of Christianity where not
many people are writing and not many
people are reading lots of people are
writing lots of people are reading in
that uh in in the last 150 years and you
can read both the people who are
impacted by the industrial revolution
people who are benefiting from and writ
large it's a very positive experience
and that doesn't mean there again there
are no downsides we should mitigate the
downsides but the thing that we can't do
and this is maybe specifically as
America or society as as the the glo
global population as a whole. There's
this impetus to say like we got to pump
this break on again don't say AI say
technology pump this break on
technology. The issue then is the
American economy really ends up
stuttering and that impacts the lowest
end of the labor market labor market way
more than anybody else. And so in the
attempt to help the people who are the
most marginalized we actually hurt them
the most. and the the you know the the
the statistics between Europe and
America are you know been have been have
been are pretty explicit but in the last
decade basically the American economy is
is now you know grown at a much higher
pace and that growth hasn't come from
you know Detroit Michigan that growth
has come from Mountain View and it's
come from Sunnyville it's come from the
Bay Area and which is another way of
saying it's because of new frontier
technologies so putting brakes on
frontier technologies
because we're afraid of unintended
consequences will actually have real
intended unintended consequences on
people who are trying to help the most.
And the reality is very very
fundamental. In a future that does not
take care of the average worker and the
average person in America, we'll have
much bigger problems. So we need a
solution that takes that into account.
But that solution isn't just pump the
brakes. AI is bad or frontier technology
is bad or technology is bad or whatever
you know whatever thing that you you
don't like. I think that that that'll
have really really bad consequences.
>> One of the reasons that we don't pump
the brakes is just fear of China and
competition with China. Uh the nunchuck
robots uh being a recent example of like
oh Uh I know you have kind of a
contrarian take on just how much of a
threat China is and how they're
approaching things. The summary version
of this is I think the way you we we
recently read as a company we read this
book uh house of Huawei which is just a
really great interesting book and uh
Huawei is a really amazing company uh
for the reason that it makes great
technology but the couple hundred
thousand people that work at Huawei
about a quarter of them are members of
the communist party and Huawei's goal is
not to grow profits or shareholders it's
a private company it's really a
extension of the eight. So literally the
name Huawei means China's ambition. So
imagine if you had a company called, you
know, MAGA and half of the company or a
quarter of the company was a certain
political party and they said our goal
isn't to make profits or to our goal is
just the expansion of it's not even a
company anymore. It's it's it's
something else, right? And so I think we
incorrectly when we specifically speak
of Americans uh we think about China, we
impart our understanding of markets and
companies onto China. So I think Huawei
since they make phones, they must be
just like Apple. It's like no no no
actually they're not that's not like
Apple at all. And so I think the first
thing I would implore everybody who
thinks about China, especially with
anxiety in America, is you're not
comparing companies to companies. This
this is not apples to apples. This is
very very different. And so imagine
instead of thinking open AI is competing
against you know deepseek you say open
competing against the Chinese
government. Instead of Apple competing
against Huawei Apple's competing against
the Chinese government and you can even
remove the word Chinese government is
the best word to to define what this
organization is. But it's not a
for-profit privatelyowned independent
group of people who are working on
projects together to build build
products to to market. So that's the
first very important thing. You cannot
treat China like another America or
another Europe or another whatever.
Number two is if your goal isn't to make
profits, you can do incredible research
and it can be extremely compelling. But
like we've seen uh if you're if the if
the if the system is not sustainable,
that's also not a company that's not
sustainable. Let me give a very stark
example of that. Chinese EVs are really
lauded as being this exceptionally
interesting product, right? And uh and
then you constantly get the streamer of
I would say fairly shallow analysis
which says look how good China is and
look how bad Munich, Detroit, Tokyo, uh
Soul are the other other epicenters for
automotive uh globally. There is a
Chinese EV- like company in America.
It's called Rivian. makes great products
uh but they lose a lot of money making
those products and therefore the company
is not very highly valued. I think if
you said top 50 or top 100 companies in
the Bay Area, I'm not sure Rivian would
would even make that list. And it's not
that the products are bad or the people
at Rivian are incompetent or they're not
working hard. It's just the business is
a tough business. The EV business in
automotive is a tough business. So, how
can we hold these realities? So, we say,
"Look how amazing these Chinese EV
companies are and look how bad the home
team is." It's just because the home
team is being assessed for being a
business. It has to make profits and
because it doesn't, it gets hammered by
public investors. The other thing is not
even a company. Now, let's if we do
apples to apples, America just has to
build great EVs. That means Tesla and
everybody else combined and we don't
care about profits. I think America
would field some very good products and
there would be wow products. So it's the
the comparisons are really really off
and I think that's creates an
misunderstanding. I think you know then
then the maybe the most philosophical
question can China succeed and does that
mean America has to fail or vice versa.
If you believe in open and free markets
you believe everybody can succeed in
those markets and that's been proven for
over a hundred years. Uh, and I think
what we're experiencing right now is how
does China play in that ecosystem
because I said open and free markets and
those are not open and free markets. And
so, but that doesn't necessarily mean
that you have to have an antagonistic
relationship. It certainly doesn't mean
that China is incompetent and it
certainly doesn't mean that it's not
doesn't warrant our attention and that
our our kind of let's say focus. But
it's also not a onetoone comparison. I
think we should be very careful in
implying it's a onetoone comparison. And
by the way, that like five minute
explanation is never going to get to the
average person sitting at an airport in
Detroit, Michigan, waiting for their
flight. They just all they consume is
China bad. Like it's like that's not
it's not like that. It's not that it's
not that simple. It's way more nuanced.
This episode is brought to you by
Lovable. Not only are they the fastest
growing company in history, I use it
regularly and I could not recommend it
more highly. If you've ever had an idea
for an app, but didn't know where to
start, Lovable is for you. Lovable lets
you build working apps and websites by
simply chatting with AI. Then you can
customize it, add automations, and
deploy it to a live domain. It's perfect
for marketers spinning up tools, product
managers prototyping new ideas, and
founders launching their next business.
Unlike no code tools, Lovable isn't
about static pages. It builds full apps
with real functionality, and it's fast.
What used to take weeks, months, or
years, you can now do over a weekend.
So, if you've been sitting on an idea,
now is the time to bring it to life. Get
started for free at lovable.dev.
That's lovable.dev.
So, you decided to join Twitter
recently. Put out your first tweet. Your
first tweet was just like, "Hello, I'm
going to start tweeting." That tweet got
like 2 million views. Uh Elon replied to
you. Mark Andrees uh quote tweeted it
and said this is the best AI CEO nobody
knows follow for the for free alpha. Uh
El Gil famed investor describes you as
the most successful most quiet company
in AI. And to me this is really
interesting because most founders are
told uh build in public, build a
following, be loud, get out there, talk
all the time about what you're doing.
You did the opposite. you were very into
the radar, stayed quiet, build, build,
build build, and then decided later,
okay, now time, it's time to talk about
our story. So, I think this counter
narrative is really interesting and I
think will inspire a lot of founders to
not feel like they have to do this. What
was your just philosophy of just start
staying quiet and then starting Yeah.
>> Yeah, it's it's a it's a great point.
Um, so number one, it was intentional
and and I think if it was up to me, it
would we would do that forever. I think
we're very much um inspired by folks
more like a Berkshire Hathaway and less
like you know let's say a Silicon Valley
darling and um the I I'll tell tell why
I changed the views and then just but
before some founders go and take that
advice uh immediately without without
really thinking about it. I can do that
because I'm known in the ecosystem. you
know, I know these folks personally and
so I don't need to have a uh a brand out
there that is getting El to, you know,
remember me and think about me. And so
if you're, you know, if I'm doing my
first two companies, uh were a lot less
known as before I really, you know,
became to YC. So, you know, all of our
company values can be reduced to these
two words of radical pragmatism. So
before you take the advice, make sure it
applies to your situation. One of the
reasons and Naval who's one of our
investors and a friend uh you know says
you know fame itself is like a tool and
it's and it's powerful. Now if you don't
have a network and you can get a
following that's a fantastic way to get
you know to recruit people to your
company to recruit investors to your
mission and then of course you know uh
customers and so but for us uh and I
think I think that wasn't a hard
requirement you know 10 10 plus years
ago. The other thing is I think Peter
and I, you know, the old saying about
life is kind of like you do things and
then you rationalize the thing that you
do, right? So
>> I think fundamentally Peter and I, we
don't get a lot of my co-founder Peter
Lewig, we don't get a lot of emotional
satisfaction out of doing very public
things. And I think if I was really to
play armchair psychologist and really
try to get to the root of why beyond the
rational view which is focus on your
customers, focus on the product. Every
minute you're doing a podcast, every
minute you're doing an expost, every
minute you're writing something for
public consumption, you're not focusing
your very limited time that you have on
your customers and your product. And
ultimately that's the only thing that's
going to produce and yield results. But
the but the the the you know the the
reality of the situation today if you
know 2026
is even a company like us that's known
or or somebody like me is known in the
ecosystem you still want to get that
broader message out and that's what I
talk a little bit a little bit about on
on X. So it's uh it's uh it is
definitely contrarian but it's not just
contrarian for contrarian's sake.
>> It plays a little bit of our of our own
psychology. Uh and then I would say just
to just to finish that thought there is
you know I grew up you know I'm an
immigrant uh came to the US uh from
Pakistan when I was a kid have a little
bit of a weird name and uh you feel like
you know anybody I grew up in in in
Detroit in Warren Michigan specifically
for all those at home and uh when you
feel that you're a little bit on the
edge of society or you're not maybe in
the mainstream and this is you know
resonates with some people that's not as
resonate with everybody you feel very
skeptical of the mainstream. because
you're just on the outside for so long.
And I think you can trace a bunch of
founders psychology to this feeling of
being an outcast actually. And so then
you find yourself in a situation where
you're like the Y, you know, CEO COO of
YC. And the narrative of I'm an outsider
is like you're like I don't know if
there's anything more inside than being,
you know, the YC COO, right? So I think
uh that reconciliation I think over the
over my career also has has had to
happen which is like maybe that's just
kind of a weird weird kind of thing. And
so when I talked to, you know, Mark
Andre who who's who's who really pushed
me to go go online or El or whoever it
is, uh their view is leave your baggage
and your trauma, you know, in the
background and really let's let's think
more pragmatically. And the pragmatic
thing here is whether I like to do these
types of things or not. Fundamentally,
it helps get the message out. And the
message can be something very small and
myopic like what's happening in physical
AI and machines become intelligent or
much larger which is what's what's
happening in society through this you
know fundamental change that we're going
through. I I I've had the rare privilege
or the uh you know experience of seeing
the full economic spectrum. You know
I've really seen the extreme ends of
both sides and and truly I I really mean
that. And uh so somebody like Mark uh
who's close to our our our company says
well that's a those are some ideas that
are worth getting out beyond just you
know you're they're promoting whatever
some you know your company or something
like that and and that I actually I that
I can get behind which is like the
debate and discussion about ideas and
what's happening to our society because
of these technical changes and um and so
you know here I am.
>> Amazing. Okay. So there's a few threads
I want to follow there. One is you were
as you said COO at Y Combinator. You saw
a lot of startups up close. You had you
this is your third startup on your own.
Something that I hear you talk about is
that successful companies almost always
show traction very early. A lot of
founders here like no just keep trying
fighting and maybe we'll be the next
Figma notion four years in we'll figure
it out. What's your experience there and
what's your advice to founders who
aren't seeing traction early?
>> Nuances. I mean, if I was starting
another company, I'd call it nuance,
right? So, the the the uh I think uh
what you're saying is correct. I I I
continue to believe that I think good
companies tend to be to have traction
fairly early and then just sustain it
for a decade plus. to the founders
that's toiling. Let's say you're
listening and you're about two years
into your company and and you're maybe
having a tough time building getting
money and building that first product
that consumers or or businesses really
love either through attention or
dollars. Two years is a very is the
difficult time. I I the heristic that I
would use is if I'm not if the
information I'm getting from the market
is not informing me on a more and more
specific path I would consider resetting
and what I mean by reset is often times
and this is wearing my YC hat seeing you
know hundreds and and and thousands of
companies is oftentimes is like the
co-founding like literally the
foundation upon which the house is built
is not correct. It's like imagine you
built this house and every time you put
a cup of water and it slides off the
table and it falls on the ground and
you're you keep adjusting the table.
It's like maybe the foundation is
actually wrong. The whole house is
offkilter. And that foundation might not
only be your co-founders. It could be
the market that you're in. It could be
the phase of life that you're in and the
amount of effort that you're willing to
put into that thing in order to make it
successful. There's a bunch of reasons
that a company can fail. Uh and you have
to be able to somehow say, I don't know
what is the reason. I'm just gonna have
to hard reset here. One thing I would
tell founders and I tell a applied is
creating a a founder class in itself.
People who've worked at applied
intuition are now starting their own
companies. Uh you know we have a
thousand plus engineers and over time
they they're they're they're starting
their own uh firms. And I say to all of
them is just imagine the first time
you're going to do startup for the first
three years it's a zero. just rid
yourself of the expectation that it's
going to be successful and that you're
really you're you're a crafts person. If
we were make if we were if this was a
woodworking podcast and you said, you
know, the first uh table that you built
was, you know, what was wobbly, you
wouldn't say, well, go work at Kraton
Barrel. You'd say, that's the first
table. We're going to we're going to
keep at it. Being a founder is its own
muscle, and you want to exercise that
muscle. But I think a lot of founders,
especially early in their founding
career, put such an incredible pressure
on themselves to make it great out of
the gate that they actually miss the
thing that you're getting in that first
round, which is learning and building
that muscle in the second, third time.
And I think it's not random that my
third company is the most successful
company. I think I think that's that I
think and that you see that more often
than not. There are funds which are
almost exclusively focused on multi-time
founders, right? For for for this
reason. What I love about that advice is
often the best ideas come from when
you're you have low expectations. You're
just playing around. You're just
tinkering. You're not like I'm going to
build the next great I don't know uh
Google. Uh it's just you having fun. And
that that's like how I found this world
that I'm in right now, this path. And
Open Claw is a good example of that.
>> I think what's why that advice is so
difficult is if you hear this and you're
like, you know, you're in you're in the
you're in the proverbial war. You're
like, "What the hell are these people
talking about having fun?" Like, "This
this this is hard." And so, you have to
like hold these contra like contrasting
kind of or conflicting views in your
head, which is like it's deeply very
very important and you should give it
your all. And it's also not that
important. And that's a really hard
thing to reconcile and keep keep in
balance.
>> And the way that you approached this
company where you stayed quiet like
that, I think helps a lot where you're
not.
>> Absolutely. Yeah,
>> it's that like
you know even like uh at YC when I
became COO I I told Sam Sam Alman was a
president and I told Sam um let's not
announce this for like a year because
you know if the partners don't want me
to be COO it's not a successful thing I
you know I don't have the pressure of
the public public scrutiny that you know
why were you COO only for six months or
something like that and I think you have
to be very honest with yourself as a
founder and as a human being that those
things matter. What people think about
you matter and it impacts yourself and
be having the spotlight on you. You
know, I always say it's very easy to
pivot before you raise money and before
you have employees. No, nobody cares.
The moment you raise money and the more
importantly the moment you hire
employees, the employees join a very
specific mission. And you go and you
walk into the office and there's 10 of
them. You say, "Guys, turns out this
isn't wrong. We're going on a different
mission. Imagine if this was war." It's
like, "What the hell? We just were
attacking that hill and now we just say
that hill is not important." like how do
you know the next hill is important and
you as a lead you lose a lot of
credibility and it's not only for the
superficialness of being a credible
leader. It's a practical nature of when
you're very very public they become the
startup becomes your identity and then
suddenly you're you're having to
reconcile that actually that thing is
not correct. So it's it is easy. One of
our our our we have these core values in
the company and in in early in the
company I used to have this line which
says our best work is done alone and
quietly and I I deeply believe that and
and so founders I would I would think of
it that way. Um
but it's for pragmatic reasons. It's not
like some just because it's cool to be
under the radar. It's it's it's just
allows you to maybe work in a bit more
peace. I love these core values you've
shared so far. This la the last one uh
the best work is done alone quietly. I'm
so on board with that. Uh radical
pragmatism is the other one you shared
earlier. Are there are there a couple
more there? These are these are gems.
Yeah, we those are like I would say the
the the meta values we we have very
specific uh uh let's say operating
principles and this is this is real as
tactical as advice I can give to
founders. So we to come up with your
values when you're getting a little bit
of traction and the reason I say that is
early enough where you and the way you
come up with the values is not like what
values should we have like as
philosophers. No no you should figure
out why are we being successful like
literally write down the five to 10
things that are the reasons you are
being successful and those become your
values and you kind of read and so we
did that and so our first one was you
know speed above everything uh and it
was like us being fast. The second one
is like, you know, uh never disappoint
the customer, technical mastery, high
output matters, like all the way down to
like, you know, ones that are not
obvious like laugh a lot. That's been
our core value from at the beginning of
the company's history. And it's like
when you're working on intense things,
if you don't have the ability to keep
grounded, have perspective, laughter,
and humor also is a way to get subtle
feedback and a slightly different taste
than this sucks. You can say it's not
the best. And that is slightly in. And
so you're you're really creating the
framework in which people are learning
how to behave with each other within the
company. And so today the values really
serve us as almost like a they're like
guiding principles. And so you know we
do new team meetings every week Peter
and I we meet all the all the new team
members and we're almost always just
talking about the values and in some
some level of detail in depth. Yeah. Uh,
another value, uh, half the work is
follow-up. Like just taking notes and
following up. That is the business. It's
not more complex than that.
>> Laugh a Lot is my new favorite company
value. Uh, yeah,
>> sounds like a wonderful place to work.
And then on the on the last piece there,
there's this book that just came out by
Stripe Press about maintenance and how
valuable and underappreciated the
maintenance part of work is.
>> Absolutely. Absolutely. Yeah. I think
like if there if there's a takeaway that
you get from let's say a bit of my
philosophy on on uh where you know we
started the conversation around like why
pro you know being promotional has all
these negative connotations in it but so
I'm careful using that word but why not
be promotional it's because there's
costs to everything and so if you can
focus on the craft and making the
product really really good and really
listening to your customers, you have a
much higher likelihood of success and uh
and then you can you can always then go
and and and scale there. A part of that
is the thing that you're talking about
maintenance or another version of in and
you know my my roots are in automotive
engineering and automotive engineering
is actually a exercise in quality. Uh
that's that's really what it's you're
building these very complex machines at
scale. You know people talk about
rockets being really really complex. You
only got to send up a rocket even at the
highest capac like once every couple of
days. You're making a car every 30
seconds and you have to make it
extremely cheap and it's globally
competitive. So you really get into the
nuance and minutia of how a factory runs
and a factory is about safety and
maintenance. It is not there's not a lot
of complex things. It's just you know
it's like when you when you break down
what is being operationally
uh you know strong. Operationally strong
is keeping an eye on a handful of things
and make sure you're doing them really
really good. And I I'm I'm one of those
believers that, you know, there there's
this adage is a man who cannot command
himself is not fit to command others. Um
and it's like that maintenance aspect is
a part of that, right? It's like if you
maintain yourself and your own work, you
maintain the your team, you maintain the
company, the products are almost they
come out of all of that that that that
system. And I think a lot of founders
don't think about their company as a
system or almost as a machine. But I I I
would implore you to do that because
then you really focus on the craft of
the machine and building the machine and
making it more hygienic uh and and and
and making it more well tuned just like
you know you you'll meet people who
really love cars and they they really
obsess about the maintenance of cars you
know like like they will they will
detail like underneath the driver's
seat. as somebody who details my own
cars, like nobody's gonna look at that.
But it's under that same ethos of of
really caring a lot about the craft and
being and frankly speaking, since you
have limited amount of time, it's hard
to really care about X and also making
your making sure your company's hygienic
and and there's different reasons at
different points of your company that
you should do different things, but
that's kind of a little bit of the
ethos.
>> I love how it keeps coming back to just
staying quiet, working just working on
the thing and not talking about it. your
point, last point there makes me think
of that um the score takes care of
itself. Uh classic.
>> Yeah. So Joe Montana is actually one of
our investors in our series D post we
the post was the valuation takes care of
itself. Like very much we fall into that
category.
>> Um and it's like it's like you know
sometimes people will come to our office
and uh they'll say oh like it's like
such a clean office you guys must have
like this giant cleaning staff. And it's
like actually we clean our office uh the
just like in Japanese school as I
mentioned I lived in Japan like the
students clean their clean their uh own
schools. We have a cleaning zen every
week and everyone cleans the area around
them. And I think it's important that
like there's something about this ethos
of like uh also like not getting so
wrapped up in your own narrative of like
I'm a Stanford software engineer and I
do AI. It's like clean up your desk.
So there's like some like basic things
like that. Uh and I don't know what that
larger philosophy is. Uh but it is a
philosophy that we we we kind of drive
towards. And I think like you know our
claim to fame which is kind of a crazy
you know reality is we've never spent
any money we've ever raised you know in
the history of the company which is kind
of it almost sounds like it's made up.
It's true. Company is almost 10 years
old. you know, a thousand engineers
plus. And so we're a functioning
business without using capital that
we've raised. And I think it's somehow
connected to us cleaning the office. I I
don't know how
>> saving all these cleaning costs. It all
makes
>> we still have people, you know, clean,
but like we also are uh like our
employees also are aware of their
surroundings. And I think there's a
direct line between like be quiet and
alone and clean your desk and
well-written software. And I don't know
what that thing is, but it's all falls
in the same arc.
>> I know you also have a no shoe policy
for that same reason to get things.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And also influenced by
Japan. I think the I worked there and we
we had a similar office setup. The other
the other other way to think about this
maybe as again I'm just trying to impart
everything I've known to founders
because I feel like that's my you know
that's who that's who that that
information is so limited and everyone's
kind of trying to make it up frankly
speaking
>> the alpha. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Exactly. Is I would implore you as a
founder to
really try to take the best of Japan and
the best of Germany, the best of China,
the best of Detroit, the best of Silicon
Valley and and you know, I think
sometimes people take that Steve Jobs
line and they really like, you know,
deform it where they say like great
artist steal. what he's really talking
about is like the less the less
magnanimous version of that is uh be
humble and learn from everything around
you and as a leader and be be
well-rounded. Uh I think like reading is
should be you know I I there's a Charlie
Munger line where he says I've never met
anybody very very successful who doesn't
read all the time and I like very much
fall into that category as well. Um and
so if you like unpack why that is like
why does reading a physical book make
you a better founder like just like ask
that question in the most direct way is
I'm not reading you know if you
especially my my ethos of reading is
read old books don't read anything new
read read old books because time has
filtered out a lot of the noise so you
get a lot of signal and in your life you
you're going to a thousand books maybe
you'll read like in the best case
scenario you're going to read probably
50 to 100 books which kind of crazy for
the average person. So, you're just not
going to read many. So, don't read
lowquality content. You read there are
there are true pillars of of kind of of
human uh ideas out there. You consume
those ideas and then it's up to you to
interpret how those ideas then reflect
upon the business that you're leading or
the technology that you're developing. I
absolutely believe reading uh a a book
like Malcolm X's autobiography will make
you a better founder and it's not I
again it's like the whole cleaning zen
all the way to clean code. It's not
directly onetoone related. I think we
always want these very simple if then
statements. Uh but I think being a
well-rounded founder where you
understand
society around you and history around
you that somehow makes you build a
better product and I don't know how uh
and how and why but I think it's
absolutely is true. I I do see
connection there. And then people like
Charlie Munger who are not an AI founder
obviously also believe that and I think
so there there's some some pattern
there.
>> Mike, it's interesting this is the same
it's a metaphor for LLMs. you feed all
his data, somehow they become almost
conscious. How does that happen? No one
no one fully knows. Um, it's so
interesting how similar you are to Mark
Andre and your way of thinking and the
way you consume content. Like there's
>> we're both bald.
There's a thread here. Just here's how
here's here's important ingredients to
being really successful.
>> Yeah. I mean, Mark, I mean, uh, you
know, we we're fortunate enough to
choose, you know, our investors and and
that's a true privilege. I didn't have
that in my first company. We spent
years. because we didn't raise a dollar.
So, I don't I I certainly appreciate it.
But, uh you know, if I've ever had like
a a mentor, you know, Mark would fall
into that category. And so, you know,
before applied and we we debated and
talked a lot and uh I think Mark uh is
also like that, right? He really
consumes content actually outside of
this little industry that we're in. And
uh and then I think it makes him
actually a better investor.
>> Yeah. You're uh we'll point people to
your website. you have a list of the
books that you recommend and love and
it's very long and very not what you
often see. Uh I can't help but just ask
are there a few books that have most
influenced your thinking, most
influenced your life?
>> Yeah, that list is like I've thoughtful
been thoughtful about that and uh the
reason I I I use books like uh the you
know the autobiography of Malcolm X as
an example is I know that's not on the
top of the list. Everyone's going to you
know if I say high output management
classic Andy Gro you know you guys know
that so book here. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly.
It's like partly the theatrics of also
entertaining you but also giving you new
information as a as a as a listener. Um
I think like a good I'm the books I'm
currently reading. This is kind of a
random you know slot of books like I'm
reading the the vibe coding book that
came out where our whole company's
reading that which is a new book and it
kind of goes against my grain of my
heristic. Um but uh the emperor of all
maladies the the cancer book uh
fantastic book I'm almost done with it.
Like I think it changes the way I think.
Like you you you read that and it
changes the way. And I think that's the
ultimate test
when a piece of material changes your
existing framing on life. This is this
is good in the LLM use. This this is
somehow related in the sense of diverse
data
makes your understanding of the world
more rich and nuanced and therefore it's
better. Uh but yeah, so like I'm always
in inspired to give like more wacky kind
of examples rather than than the other
the obvious ones. But uh the obvious
ones that if I really wasn't wasn't you
know wasn't being theatrical. I think
Sam Walton's book made in America is a
unbelievable book. It's very very good.
He wrote it on his deathbed.
You know my American Journey is also
very good. Cole Powell's book it's not
it's not on my website but it's it's
really good. you know, I I'm a I'm I'm
somebody who tries to connect some of
these dots from like us being, you know,
cave people to now like living in, you
know, you know, uh, Silicon Valley
working as a venture-backed AI company
founder. Uh, and so guns books like
Guns, Germs, and Steel really are top of
that list. A fantastic fantastic book or
Collapse, also same author. Um, so yeah,
but my my my point to to founders is
read the stuff. You can still go to
physical bookstores, read the stuff that
is both old and well regarded and you
know nothing about. I often when I'm
trying to find the next book to read,
like I remember uh the way I picked up
SPQR, which is the book on on Roman
history, was like I was like I don't
actually know a lot about Roman history.
I know the highlevel stuff. So like
think about all the ideas in the
universe from philosophy to history to
you know Janism to the rise of you know
Japan as a as a feudal state like areas
you don't really know and then just find
the best book in that space and I think
you you just start filling in the blanks
and so often I I I that's kind of like
the way that I gro the ecosystem is like
what don't I know anything about and let
me co find the best piece of material in
in that and yeah it doesn't work Oh, I
like that. Uh, so Mark's Mark's
philosophy is this barbell strategy of
only today news like X and 10 years ago
books. I love that you're like no just
like upside down tea almost just only.
>> Yeah, you I mean you you know Mark was a
heavy influence in me getting on X. So
uh so you know he's he's he's propagated
that that that view and I I the the
thing that I really do agree with him is
on
>> as our company becomes a larger more
influential and impactful company to
society it is my responsibility as a
co-founder of the company and the CEO of
the company to at least propagate my
ideas to our first AI founder community
and then larger the technology
leadership and then the world at large.
And so that's that that's part of it. I
think in that way Mark is Mark has
really taken it you you think about VCs
not long ago you would never even know
who their names are.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean they were like this an they were
like you know they're like PE guys or or
or you know hedge fund managers. You
can't even think of names. They're
they're like they're just blobs of
ominous sounding Obsidian Corporation or
something like that. And it's only A16Z
and a couple of other folks. John Door
uh who really kind of created the hey
I'm going to be the individual investor
and I'm going to propagate a certain set
of ideas and that's going to create
gravity within Silicon Valleys and
influence founders to then make certain
types of companies and of course they
invest in those. on this thread about
reading to find almost areas you
disagree and and don't you know haven't
thought about. I know one of your
approaches to management and one that
maybe a value is to encourage your
leaders to listen to naysayers to not
create this positive reinforcement
cycle. Talk about why that's so
important, how you operationalize that.
>> So imagine, you know, I'm not the the
the founder of the company and Peter's
not the co-founder of it's just just a
generic company. The ideal that you the
ideal situation with a generic company
is one that you can put in lots of
different competing ideas. The culture
is one where you will shake those ideas
out. There's not an emotion in it.
Whoever brings the idea, the best best
idea wins. So why can't companies do
that? Frankly speaking, a lot of times
it's the founders. And the founders are
told, you know, by, you know, popular
media and the way that human beings
experience life and our tribal kind of
outlook that you have to have this hard
view and everyone has if they're not
following you, then maybe you're a weak
leader or something like that. And I
think we just don't believe that. We
don't just believe in that philosophy.
And I think we we we believe that what
maybe a more tactical way of saying that
is we take inputs of the environment,
our customers specifically, our
employees, our competitors, of our
investors, and we of what's happening in
society at large and that impacts our
strategy. And uh and I think it's one of
the reasons we've been very very
successful. We're not we're not so
arrogant to think that we just have the
answers because we had the ambition to
start a company. And I think that
permeates into a very specific culture.
And I think the culture that we've built
is one. It's also not being contrarian
for contrarian sake, right? I like if
you one one view I do have is emotions
are generally not helpful in making
rational decisions. They're almost like
the opposite of it. And sometimes
passion and you know leadership are
supposed to be about you know they're
supposed to be like again magnanimous or
or or emotional. And we just don't
believe that. And and that's I think a
bit more of our kind of Midwest, you
know, uh you know, roots showing for
Peter and I. And and and and so I think
it's not that we say, "Hey, disagree
with everything in the room." What we
specifically say is speak up. Speak up.
Everyone has to speak up because that
one person with their one experience
because they worked at you know Zuks or
Whimo or wherever Tesla or they worked
at a Chinese company whatever it is that
one idea they have in their head when
the debate is happening about what we
should do in um you know uh in space
like literally the space of space uh and
uh and something maybe we don't know
much about that one person's one idea
they have to feel comfortable sharing it
even if they're the most junior person
or they feel that they didn't get their
way in the last debate or they they feel
you know whatever whatever
anxiety that they might have they have
to share that opinion that guys this is
actually the right idea or this is the
wrong idea and if you can create that
environment where the best idea wins you
know Gandhi has this line truth is what
stands the test of time we're trying you
know and I think there's become a little
bit of a meme in the Bay Area like truth
seeking you know as a culture but it
kind of is like that we're trying to
find the best idea maybe truth is the
wrong word maybe it's the best idea find
the best idea and then let's go full
boore against the best idea. Let's maybe
use a counterfactual. Why do companies
fail when they have great talent and
they have, you know, seemingly all the
same components that that an applied
intuition have? It's because maybe the
best ideas are not being surfaced and
certainly maybe they're not actually
being adopted or more often than not
when I think about companies that have
been very successful is they have
momentum going in a specific direction
and that momentum over that that that
that
wall of sound overwhelms any new sound
that's emerging which hey the market's
changing the market's changing you just
can't even hear that because there's all
this momentum going in a particular
direction. A good example, I had front
row seats for this when I worked at
Google. Uh it was the era where Facebook
was emerging. And here was Google. And
people don't remember Google in the late
O00's and early teens. Google wasn't
just a company. It was the apex predator
of Silicon Valley. Apple was just, you
know, the MacBook Air had just come out.
Steve Jobs was had getting in the right
direction, but nothing like Apple is
today. Amazon, AWS was still a young
thing. Nvidia was teetering off of
bankruptcy. Uh I mean all these giant
companies that you think of Microsoft
was run by Balmer, you know, Twitter was
a small thing and then you so it wasn't
it was and but Google was this already
larger than life number one company.
Everybody wanted to work at Google and
there was there there were not many
companies with that stature and then in
the periphery this little company
Facebook starts emerging and Google who
has the best engineers on the planet is
making a billion in cash flow a month
tries to fight this little company that
and I remember Facebook at that time
maybe had a thousand people and Google
was like you know 15x 20x the size with
a lot of cash flow and why couldn't
Google fight Facebook It's because
Google is not Facebook. It's like that
confusion saying like how does a gorilla
learn how to fly? By not being a
gorilla. The way that Google would have
won the social media wars by being a
social media company. It's it's just
fundamentally not. And so the large this
happens in companies all the time which
is you're just going in one direction
with momentum consciously or
unconsciously because that's what all
the employees are. That's what the
culture is. that's what what they work
on and then something changes in the
market and you just can't even even even
move there and I think that also can
happen uncar or surprisingly at really
small companies so where founders have a
view and it's like that view is the view
it's going to be and actually that can
be just 10 degrees off from what is the
was the correct path and the whole
company's kind of led astray so they
were in the right market they might have
even been soling the right problem but
they were just a little off and so we're
so scared of failing and so scared of
losing that I will humble myself and
listen to other people and they say hey
we're five degrees off off course here
and it's like okay let's let's let's
let's maybe fix the course and then once
that becomes your culture then it's
really hard to lose because everybody's
not about fulfilling a preset path
they're just about finding the you know
to how to win this is exactly what I
wanted to ask about everyone listening
to this either is like oh yeah we're
very open-minded we're we're absolutely
going to listen everyone's opinions and
decide rationally the right path. Uh in
practice
>> almost never happens,
>> right? Uh or they're just like uh we're
just we know we're not good at this.
We're just like too nice to each other.
>> Um how do you how do you do this at a
company that isn't good at this? Is it
like does it have to be the CEO top down
in your experience? Does it have to be
part of the culture? How do you
operationalize at a company that's not
like you? you know, the the middle way
is is typically the right way and and
it's it's it's hard to find the middle
way because these are conflicting ideas.
These the the the guard rails or the
flag the post you just set. One side is
like we're just going to go and the
other side is we're too you know maybe
like almost like unsure and you have to
somehow
once you do make that have that debate
you have to then confidently walk down
that path and again this is conflicting.
I just said be humble enough to listen
to what's going on. But then once that
decision is made, the decis in our
values that first value uh you know the
speed value which is specifically the
wording is uh move fast, move safe.
That's specifically the wording. We
assess our managers on adherence those
values. Literally we compensate and
promote against those values. They're
not just like abstract values. So the
behavior we're actually looking at under
speed is decisiveness.
So we're setting up a system that is
looking at, you know, these conflicting
kind kind of things. One is like be open
and the other one's make decisions
quickly and and you have to hold hold
those intention. This is why you as the
co-founder or founder of the company get
paid the big bucks. You got to do that.
You got to you have to know when to when
to bluff and when to hold them and you
know uh when to fold them as as I say.
So you you you you you at some point and
that point comes sometimes faster than
you think you will not get any more
information and you have to make a
decision. So you're you're you're you're
walking this very very thin line.
>> Your point about emotions was extremely
interesting and I want to make sure
people don't take away the wrong
takeaway here. Um so what I actually
found really helpful which I think is
aligned with what you were suggesting is
taking emotions out of it. The way I've
used this in my work is uh when you have
to make a hard decision, pretend
nobody's feelings would be hurt and
emotions are not involved. What would
you do if nobody cared if they're like
totally great? So, what would you do do
in that world? And then that tells you,
okay, that's actually the right thing to
do. And then it's okay, how do I help
people feel okay about this? How do I
deal with the downsides of this path?
Yeah, I think I think that's the that's
the obvious version of it. I think maybe
another version of think is it's an
emotion is let's take another you as the
leader or as the engineer who is getting
direction you already have some preset
view that this is my idea that's an
emotional you know that's an emotional
construct and it's it's it's around
ownership and feeling of ownership so
yeah I'm I I really fall into that
category of like the more so like even
maybe most fundamentally What is an
emotion? An emotion is like these set of
reactions that have been that a
framework that's been imparted in your
brain through life experiences. And
those life experiences might not
actually make you optim have not been
optimized for you to make a decision in
a product review. And so the the more
you can pull that away, a good heristic
would be the same decision being made by
multiple people in the company gets the
same result. So you're removing a little
bit of that almost like filter. You can
almost think of that emotion as like a
filter. So I like to have the raw image
come through, the raw decision come
through so we can consistently
classify it again and again. Not to get
too abstract, but I don't know if that
makes sense.
>> Yeah, it makes sense. And uh I have one
last question, but uh there's an
interesting trend I've noticed with a
people talking about AGI. The missing
piece I've been hearing more and more is
just emotions are what creates
consciousness potentially. Michael
Pollen has a new book out about
consciousness and his take is it's not
just more intelligence, it's actually
emotions that led to the consciousness.
I think it's it's it's
uh uh under let's say um undermining how
complex human thought is to think that
it's just the let's say the you know
inputs and outputs of or let's say
association for the lack of better word
of ideas, facts, words, letters. It's
not just those as associations and uh
and creativity is kind of a little a
little bit you know of that as well like
like what the old the old saying of like
technical mastery is mastering the
complex and I think computers do that
really well and creativity is mastering
the simple. I'm sure I'm going to eat my
words on this as like the best artist in
like three years will be
>> Yeah. Yeah. And so I think uh and this
again goes back to my philosophy of like
consume broad you know, broad inputs,
but then try to remove that filter, see
things as honestly as they possibly can.
Create a culture in the company that is
also similar and doesn't put any weight
on who the idea came from or where it
came from, but then ultimately as a
leader, you decide. And by the way, you
got to be right.
>> Like that's the other thing I think a
lot of founders that just were not we
don't emphasize enough. Founders love to
take credit for for things. uh it's just
human nature. Everybody does. But they
the the reality is you have to be right.
It's not enough to just start a company.
It's not enough to, you know, have this
vision of the world. You have to be
right. And the evidence is is the
company a sustainable standalone
business because we're talking
specifically about, you know,
venture-backed AI companies in Silicon
Valley. All of my I should have said
this at the beginning. all of my, you
know, all my advice is specifically for
that narrow group which is which is
founders of of of AI ventureback
companies in the Bay Area.
>> Speaking of that, last question. I've
been wanting to get to this because it's
an interesting spicy take that you have
as a last question. I know you have to
run after this. You have this view that
a lot of CEOs in Silicon Valley don't
actually have great taste. I'm excited
to hear what your experience there and
just what what you
>> Yeah, I I I also want to be careful to
imply that I do.
>> Okay. I fall into that into that group.
Uh I think uh you know the it is true
because a lot of the couple of reasons
both both taste in the most let's say uh
you know artistic sense and in the most
spec like running a company and like
what should be the policy like HR policy
for you know point X. Uh, a lot of that
is I think they're just not exposed to a
lot of interesting good things and and
that's been a theme in this whole
conversation is like just just get more
and more exposure. I it's very
unfortunate when I meet somebody who and
I'm not thinking of anyone in
particular. So if this is you and you're
one of my friends, I apologize. I don't
I'm not talking about you. But it's
like, you know, you grow up in Certino,
you go to Berkeley, and you start and
the first thing you do when you come out
of school is you start a company, and
then that's that's all you do, you know,
for 20 like you've never even been an
employee. And why I think that's so
important, like I spent over a decade
working in large organizations and like
truly large, like more more than 100,000
employees, like a General Motors or like
a Bosch. Uh, and when you're in the, you
know, the, you know, the back alley of
that organization, the bowels of those
organizations, you learn how bad it is
to be an employee. Like the bureaucracy
above you, leadership doesn't know
what's going on, the industry, you know,
your antiquated tools, all this stuff.
Why that's so important to experience as
an individual is then when you become a
leader, you're making policies and
you're creating culture and you have to
keep that in mind. and a bunch of
founders. We just never had the frankly
the fortune of being at the bottom of
the totem pole. And uh and that's just
one version of how to, you know, that
that doesn't obviously seem like, you
know, uh read re read, you know, consume
the photos of uh Brissant or, you know,
Picasso or whoever it might be. Um but
it's something similar. There's
something similar about you. You can
sometimes meet founders and may maybe a
good heristic here is like there's some
founders that would be good at lots and
lots of things actually not just being a
founder of an AI company in the Bay Area
and there's something about taste there
because what you're really what you're
talking about is like understanding
humans and understanding life and then
being able to discern with some judgment
what is good and what's not good because
that's really what we're talking about.
And uh and so if you if your if your if
your life experience is very narrow, you
you could still be good and and you
might and or have the ability to discern
what's good and what's what's what's not
good. But I think like there's something
about like if you've backpacked for a
few years around the world, I somehow
believe that's going to be a better
founder. It's like, you know, I don't
know how I can there's no peer-reviewed
research that can that I can point to
that that says that. So I think that's
what I'm getting at. There there is some
developing of taste. Yeah. Well, uh, I
feel like we have, uh, helped people
build their taste, build feed their feed
their model with more insights and
different perspectives in this
conversation. I feel like we could chat
for hours, but I know you got to run.
>> Yeah, I'm not sure if there were any
real takeaways other than
>> Okay,
>> we really we really went everywhere. I'm
sorry if you had a particular line of
questions you wanted to go down.
>> We went in all the perfect directions.
>> Okay, good. Good.
>> Caster, thank you so much for doing
this. Thank you so much for being here.
Um, final question. Just where can folks
find you online? How can listeners be
useful to you?
>> Uh, that's a great question. I mean, uh,
I love to hear what are books that I
don't know. Um, so that's that's always
good. I've I've some of my favorite
books have been just randomly kind of
recommended to me. So, uh, I I'll I'll
take that. Of course, um, I consume, you
know, research as well. And so if
there's something particularly novel
that's going on, obviously all the
mainstream stuff we as a company and me
as an individual are going to consume,
but things that are a bit off the beaten
path, we're always looking for that. Uh
but yeah, and then if you if you have a
particular opinion about specifically
our domain, physical AI, and how AI is
going to impact
mines, farms, constru, you know,
construction sites, uh robo tax, all of
that stuff. I'm always interested to
hear new new opinions on that or even
old opinions maybe with a different
viewpoint. So, uh yeah, if you if you
see me, you can see me online, of
course. Uh I'm always around as well.
I'm always always open to that feedback.
>> And you're on Twitter now. There you go.
>> Yeah, exactly. Yeah, follow me there.
So, I Yeah, exactly. That that's that's
the answer.
>> That's the call to action.
>> Channeling my inner inner Mark.
>> There you go. Casser, thank you so much
for doing this and for being here.
>> Yeah, thanks for having It was a lot of
fun.
>> Bye everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.